Hey guys, welcome back. OK, I'm going to talk about
how I got a logo for the account Innovation Station.
We can throw it up on the screen right now if you want to see it.
So, before we talked about what your options were, you can use auto-generators, you can hire someone directly from Dribbble,
you can try to hack it out yourself,
or you can do a logo contest.
OK.
So what I opted to do was a logo contest.
The reason was just because I had good experiences
with them generally, and I find that they're better if
you have a very broad idea of what you want as a logo.
At least if you have a flexible set of criteria, like, I
could be impressed with a lot of different designs,
aesthetics, icons, whatever, but it is kind of hit or miss.
That's another thing worth pointing out, sometimes
it doesn't really work out, sometimes it does.
I've done it enough times to be confident that I
can get out of it what I want, so I did it this way.
I set my thing at $500 just because I'm actually
going to take this seriously, I am going to build this
account, I'm actually going to put actual production
value into it, I want to make sure it looks good.
I'm going to focus on the content and actually
try to post consistently and make this grow.
So I said that for me that's a decent investment.
I think you could get just as good of a logo spending
$200 and hiring someone directly, or even
on Fiverr sometimes. A lot of time, you're just
rolling the dice, finding the right designer,
and giving them the right instructions.
So let's just kind of go through
how the contest went for me.
When you go to 99designs, they ask you
to set the amount that you want to pay.
They'll ask you what exactly you want.
I just said logo, just logo,
and then in my brief, I described logo
plus some actual little things that I wanted.
That said, I could do a bronze plan for $250, a silver for $499,
a gold for like $800, and a platinum for way over $1,000.
And basically what they say is that
as you go up higher on the scale,
you get access to better designers.
Now, I'm going to tell you something, that's not actually true.
People are just attracted to the price value.
You can get access to top designers regardless
of what category you go in, so I knew that,
but also I knew that they're incentivized by the money, so
I went for a silver, and originally I didn't have it guaranteed.
What that basically means is that if you don't have a
guarantee, that means that if people make a bunch of
designs and you don't like it,
you go through the whole process, you get your money back. If you do decide to make a guarantee, that means
you'll have more people participating, they'll feel
more confident making the designs, because you're
not just going to pull out at the very last second.
It says guaranteed right now because, as
I'll explain, they do their system in rounds.
Anyway, once I did it, I called it "Instagram
account for innovation and tech lovers."
That's pretty much it.
I wanted to focus on "it's an Instagram
account", like, the medium is different,
this is not a logo for a website, it's not a logo for
like a YouTube channel or anything like that.
It's Instagram, it's small assets, it's on your phone.
Anyway, focus on that - square images.
Then I had to fill out a brief.
Now, in the brief, I just said this is the
name I wanted, Innovation Station.
Describe what your organization product does and
its target audience. Then I just said "I'm making an
Instagram account, and we're going to post pictures and videos every day of interesting innovations and new technologies.
Instagram account, and we're going to post pictures and videos every day of interesting innovations and new technologies."
The handle is this, I said our target audience is the
general tech loving population, but also entrepreneurs.
I kind of got this from just playing around on it.
Later on, we'll talk about how to lay the foundation of
the framework to figure out who your target market was.
So I did some bouncing around and just kind of looked
at the people who like innovation accounts also
like entrepreneurship, they also like startups
and the general business community.
And also, it kind of made sense in my head, like, those
are the people that would probably follow this. I said
I didn't know what the demographics are, doesn't really matter.
Then what I did is I gave them some
examples of what we would cover.
This is usually pretty helpful so they can
actually visualize what it's going to look like,
what are the actual topics. Then I said,
this is basically what I wanted,
a logo. I preferred a symbol plus text. Now, a symbol is
just some kind of icon that the company is represented by,
it has no text, and it's like, Nike is a swoosh.
That's what I wanted.
McDonald's is like the M, right?
But then other companies have what's called
logotype and that is, their logo is text.
So I just said I want this symbol,
and then plus text separately.
And the font, I just said pick a font that goes well in a post, something that looks good in a small screen resolution.
Then I said, you know, we're going to use it as a visual
mark, we're going to put it on photos and videos, you
see a lot of accounts do that, it's pretty effective.
And then I just kind of gave them a brief description
of what Instagram in general likes. They like clean,
modern logos, and you want to make sure they
look good embedded and videos and images.
Also, I said colorful profile photos.
We'll talk about this later.
They also work pretty well, you want color, or least interesting contrast. Down here, it asked me to pick a visual style
I wanted, and I said this last one, I like when designers
choose the visual style, I'm not an expert in this stuff,
I don't want to pigeonhole them in one color.
Then past that, they give you these sliders.
And it's Instagram, so I want modern, people on
Instagram don't generally go for the classic stuff. Here,
mature and youthful, didn't really matter.
I just, I didn't care.
Feminine - masculine, again, didn't really care.
The wind doesn't blow either way for this account.
I wanted it to be a little more playful, because again,
Instagram, they go for more like playful things,
they're not trying to take anything super serious,
but they don't like stuff that looks cheap.
So I said luxurious as opposed to economical. Here, organic - geometric, geometric just means is it shaped like a shape
you could recognize or is it organic, so something that's abstract.
So geometric design could be like an octagon
with a shape inside, and organic could
just be some crazy squiggly lines, like a signature or
something. And then abstract and literal, abstract
could be that crazy squiggly line you look at
and you don't know what it is, it's just
something, a blob, and literal means
I look at it and I know what it is.
It's an animal, it's a car, whatever.
And then they ask you to pick designs that you like.
Whatever, I picked the ones that I just thought looked good.
Again, modern, clean, looks like something that's
made actually in this decade, not from, like, 2006.
And then I gave some information about why. You'll notice that
I picked things that looked modern, had good color, and just
kind of looked polished.
Down here, it says, "Anything else you
want to communicate to the designers?"
I just said like, it needs to look good on an Instagram page,
and then what I did was I gave them a link to two different things.
One was freepik.com, and they had an Instagram frame,
and that Instagram frame is super helpful, because
I wanted them to post it on the actual frame so
I could see what it looks like in a post - like this.
I don't want to see it by itself because I don't know
what that looks like on an actual Instagram account.
And down here I gave them Instagram's link to their assets.
I'll put this in the resources.
Same thing.
They let you download screenshots of it
so that people can edit with it. Great.
Then, other than that, I just said like, you know, here's
sample text from a post that we might use, I said
we're going to probably focus on videos
over photos, doesn't really matter.
I mean, this is what I was thinking at the moment.
Then, the rest of it is pretty much... whatever.
OK, so basically what ended up happening was
they predicted that I was going to have 60 designs.
I got almost 200.
Now, the way that I did this was as
soon as you start your contest, go
up here, go to designers. What you can do is just go
here to search and you can look through designers,
and all I did was I just scrolled through
every day, looked at the ones that I liked,
I was like, "Oh, that looks like a good one," clicked their name,
then all I had to do was click "Invite to my
project," so it says "Invite to work".
I just wrote a one sentence message, and it said, "Your
designs rock, I have a contest I think you could win."
That's it.
You want to compliment them, tell them that
you're actually interested in what they do.
And then I just said,
so they are actually interested in, this is a contest,
they want to actually know that they can win, not waste their time, not spend five hours on a logo, then someone else wins it.
So that's one little hack that I always do.
They allow you to send 50 messages a day.
Make sure you use all 50.
That's how you get a lot of attention on your actual project.
It makes a huge difference. If I only had 60 designs,
I don't think I'd have a logo I like as much.
Anyway, so people post every single day and
they give you all sorts of different designs.
What you need to do is you need to rate them.
So 1-5 on stars, and you need to give them comments.
I mean, that's it.
The more information you give them, the more people will
participate in the contest, but also will go in the right direction.
If you don't really know what to say about
certain things, honestly just sit on it.
That's what happens. There's a lot of these logos like this.
I like the colors, but I didn't really know what to say,
so I kind of just sat on it, and then I really
came up with was I think it looks generic and I can't
tell if it's something related to the account or not.
I also just kept saying over and over again, please,
no abstract designs, I don't want abstract designs,
I don't generally think those work on Instagram.
People need to be able to look
at the logo and know what it is,
otherwise it just looks like some blank account that
they have no idea what they're clicking through
to. Anyway, so you can kind of see the back
and forth that happened with a lot of designers.
There were a whole lot of designs that I
just absolutely hated, and this is how it works.
I mean, it's just part of the game.
You will have the option to give
them 1-5, but you also can trash it.
So what you can do is you can go to the design.
Ok, so this gives me the cup.
But if I go here, and there should be a trash icon,
I don't have it now because the contest is done,
but that basically throws it away, basically says "This
design is so bad, I'm not even going to consider it,"
and essentially that means to the designer,
"You're not going in any direction that I like,
I don't even want other designers to see this," because
if you rate one, what ends up happening is designers
will see that you rated something.
What happens is they'll use that to inform
their judgment about what to design.
So if I liked a rocket, then all of a sudden a lot
of people were going to show up with rockets.
The difference between trashing a design
and doing a one star, by the way,
a one star means there's things I
like about it, but it's not good enough,
whereas a trashed design means "Please
don't consider any part of this." Anyway,
so, yeah, I just kind of went through this.
I tried to give comments as often as I could.
One thing that's really helpful is to be able to click
through and click on the image to comment,
so you can say I don't like this.
So like, with this design, I just thought this was bizarre.
So we were trying to figure out what icons to use,
and they decided to put a beaker inside of a rocket,
which just doesn't really make a lot of sense to me, like,
why are you shooting a rocket with a beaker in it? Anyway,
a couple of times, what I did was I sent messages
to the entire group, just because I saw that everyone
was doing the same design things, and I wanted to
send a message saying, "Hey, let's try something else."
So a couple of times I said, "Please, no abstract logos,"
"Please don't use fonts that look too sci-fi,"
"Try not to use light bulbs." I think
light bulbs are too much of a cliche.
Everyone uses them, it's just dumb.
Then what ended up happening was
I started giving people ideas.
I said, what are things that represent innovation?
I said robots, charts, gears, rockets, beakers, things like that.
So that kind of gave people a little bit more direction.
Then what happens is people keep giving you designs,
you keep rating them, and it kind of pushes it in a
certain direction. After a certain amount
of days, you have to pick the finalists.
So I had to pick six designers right here that I thought
were good enough that I could continue with.
Then you go through four more days, I think, working
with them to kind of hone in on something you like, and
then you pick the winner.
So I picked these guys.
They had the best designs so far.
Then we kind of worked through it.
What I did also, which I thought helped a lot, was when
I picked my finalists, I put together an Evernote
link full of all the designs I liked and broke them down,
why I liked them, and sent that to them, because
I really wanted to make sure they
were pointing in the right direction.
So it looked like this.
I said, hey, here's the ones with good
fonts that I liked, and I just copied them.
I just screenshoted them off of what other people had.
Because a lot of times people had terrible logos but
great font. Then I said here are good uses of color.
I like these uses of color.
I love this one right here, specifically.
So then I just kind of put those, so people understand
this is the bar I'm looking for in color. Then
I said these are ones I think have good aesthetics or
general design, like these are all kind of smooth,
they're modern, they look well polished.
They also use color, but it's more subtle.
So I said these are good, kind of well rounded ones.
And the last thing I said, these are
good uses of the Instagram frame.
We'll talk about this later when we get into profile photos but it's important that you get something that works with the frame.
A lot of times what was happening was people would
send me designs, we can throw them up on the screen,
where they would put a beaker or a rocket, and the rocket
was going outside of the circle, which you just can't do.
You can't upload a circle image and
then have something flying outside of it.
Instagram is going to resize that
and just make it look terrible.
It was right here, that example, like, it was flying
outside of the circle, so I just really couldn't work
with that one, so I tried to remind people to make sure
that it looks good in a circle, not just by itself. Anyway,
so what I ended up with was the design that we all should know
at this point, right here, from a person named m.creative.
I then asked them, as the last thing, I gave
them a little ticket list of things to give me.
I said I wanted different color variations, give me
a logo outline, give me a frame for a photo, and
then give me a black version, because
I was interested in having the black version.
And then, there we go.
So I have all these different things,
I have the font, and that's it, pretty much.
I'm pretty much ready to go, I'm going to use these assets in
my account, and we're going to use these colors to inform
my designs going forward.
I think it worked out.
I think you guys could get a good enough or even
a better logo with spending a lot less money,
or if you have any talent or a friend
who does it, just get them to do a logo.
You don't have to do it this way.
I just thought it'd be interesting to show you guys what's the
most fancy or at least expensive option that I'm aware of.
All right, guys, look out for that logo going forward.
See you in the next lecture.